[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
I'm George Noory.
I do not know where
our producers come up
with these great shows
week after week after week,
and we've got another
one for you today.
This time, we're talking with
occult researcher, Lon Milo
Duquette.
Now, Lon is a very
special person
because he has jumped into
the occult as a researcher
and has unraveled
some amazing stories.
We're going to
talk with you today
about one such person
named Aleister Crowley.
Lon, welcome to the program.
>>LON MILO DUQUETTE:
Thank you, George.
>>NOORY: Hey, tell us a little
bit about this individual
we're going to talk about
today, Aleister Crowley.
>>DUQUETTE: OK,
Aleister Crowley has,
more or less, dominated my
interest since the late '60s.
He was an English occultist,
who in his lifetime
garnered an extremely
bad reputation as,
among other things,
a black magician.
>>NOORY: Conjuring up the
devil, all this stuff.
>>DUQUETTE: Well, that's
what people like to think.
>>NOORY: That's
what they thought.
>>DUQUETTE: That's
And actually was probably
one of the most brilliant,
esoterically spiritual
minds of the 20th century.
And during his lifetime,
he was vilified
as a pretty dark character,
but those that understood him
during his lifetime
really understood him
to be a brilliant character.
And now his reputation
is undergoing a major--
>>NOORY: Scrutiny.
>>DUQUETTE: Yes,
he's quite respected.
>>NOORY: What time period
are we talking about for him?
>>DUQUETTE: He was born in
1875 and he died in 1947.
He was, among other
things also involved
in British intelligence.
>>NOORY: Oh, in what way?
>>DUQUETTE: He went to
Cambridge with the idea
of becoming a diplomat.
>>NOORY: A diplomat.
>>DUQUETTE: Right.
>>NOORY: For the
British government.
>>DUQUETTE: Right,
which more or less,
was what people who were being
recruited for intelligence
said that they would
be doing in Cambridge.
There's a recent book called
"Aleister Crowley Secret Agent
666" by--
>>NOORY: Great, the sign
of the beast, by the way.
>>DUQUETTE: Yes.
>>NOORY: That number.
>>DUQUETTE: It outlines his
intelligence activities prior
to and during World
War I and World War II.
>>NOORY: Was this
a career for him?
He was getting paid for this?
>>DUQUETTE: Well, it's like
an amateur gentleman's career.
Sort of the pre-James Bond era.
>>NOORY: I love this.
>>DUQUETTE: That
would be Crowley.
>>NOORY: And this was Cambridge.
>>DUQUETTE: He went
to Cambridge, yes.
The newest book
outlines his activities
in helping to get the
United States involved
in World War I on
England's side,
rather than on Germany's side.
>>NOORY: Like World
War II, almost.
Same kind of thing.
So when he went to Cambridge,
he must have picked up
some added skills.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>NARRATOR: In his last
year at Cambridge in 1898,
Aleister Crowley wanted ultimate
achievement in three different
aspects of his life--
poetry, mountain climbing, and
the search for spiritual truth.
By coincidence, he was to form
three long lasting friendships
that same year, which would
mirror those aspirations.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: You know, Lon.
I've always liked
that kind of accent.
I've always wanted to do a
show with a British accent
for the entire program.
>>DUQUETTE: It gives an
air of respectability
to what is being said, for sure.
>>NOORY: At what point
in Crowley's career,
because here he is this
British agent basically,
does he start dabbling with
the occult and the dark side
of life.
>>DUQUETTE: Well, I think he
always considered himself,
first and foremost, a poet.
>>NOORY: A poet?
>>DUQUETTE: Yes, and
so even his involvement
in the spiritual
practices of magic,
the Hebrew Kabbalah, even
the Eastern practices,
he saw as an expression of his
poetic yearning, if you will,
toward enlightenment.
In a sense, he
looked at everything,
including his
intelligence activities
and his mountain climbing
as romantic expressions
of his poetic nature.
>>NOORY: Was he
involved with anybody?
Was he married?
Did he have kids?
>>DUQUETTE: He was
married several times,
and he had several
children over the years.
He was what we
would consider, what
was considered in those
days sort of a libertine.
>>NOORY: A-ha.
>>DUQUETTE: And that gave
ammunition to his detractors
that he led an immoral life.
>>NOORY: Did he have
many detractors?
>>DUQUETTE: He had
many, many detractors.
And for one reason
or another, he
cultivated negative publicity.
>>NOORY: Really?
He enjoyed it.
>>DUQUETTE: He enjoyed
it, and that may have also
been part of his
disinformation cover
as an intelligence officer.
He came to the United
States prior to World War I
and convinced a German
propaganda newspaper
in New York that he was
a German sympathizer.
He got not only a
column in that newspaper
but became an editor, a
co-editor of the newspaper.
It was Crowley's
editorials advocating
unrestricted submarine warfare
against civilian shipping
that helped American
public opinion to come in
to help England and not
come in and help Germany.
>>NOORY: So he wasn't a
double agent, by any means.
He was all
pro-British, wasn't he.
>>DUQUETTE: He was
all pro-British
but he allowed everyone to
think that he was pro-German.
>>NOORY: That must have
been frustrating to do that.
>>DUQUETTE: It was frustrating
and he said that after he died,
it would be proved that he was
always working for England.
>>NOORY: That was
his role, I guess.
>>DUQUETTE: Yes, but
he was true to his word
and didn't say that he was a
double agent, until after he
died, when they
immediately found
a letter from British
intelligence in his wallet.
>>NOORY: See this is
the profile that I've
had from him over
the years, and that
is that he was a dark magic
practitioner, believed that he
could have been the anti-Christ,
dabbled with the Devil
and Satan, was a black
mass type person.
I mean everything
horrendous that you
could think about--
sexual perversions,
all this stuff I heard
about Aleister Crowley.
>>DUQUETTE: Yes and
most of it he loved.
>>NOORY: Was it true?
>>DUQUETTE: Well, we'd
have to take things
one thing at a time.
Crowley was not, in
my opinion, was not
an evil individual at all.
He was a serious
spiritual practitioner
that saw the purpose of
all spiritual endeavors
as a self-transformational
process.
>>NOORY: How did he get this rap
of being all these things I've
just said?
>>DUQUETTE: Most
of it we can blame
on ultra conservative Victorian
attitudes towards sex,
morality, and religion.
>>NOORY: Was he a
freak in today's terms?
>>DUQUETTE: In today's
terms he was a freak.
And if he had been
doing what he did today,
he would not even be
considered too much
of an eccentric
character at all.
>>NOORY: So Lon,
how was he raised?
Let's start with his father.
And I think we have
a picture of him.
There he is, father,
Edward Crowley.
He did not live long at all,
53 years, but what kind of guy
was he?
>>DUQUETTE: He was
a wealthy brewer.
He had a brewing
company, Crowley Ales,
which sold right up
into the 20th century.
He sort of invented the
equivalent of the convenience
store market.
>>NOORY: Like 7-Eleven?
>>DUQUETTE: Like 7-eleven.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>DUQUETTE: Yeah, and
for working men, working
in mines in Industrial
Revolution, when
they got a lunch
break, they would
go to one of his little inns.
They would drink Crowley Ale.
>>NOORY: Yeah, buy things.
>>DUQUETTE: Have a ham sandwich
or something like that.
>>NOORY: Brilliant.
>>DUQUETTE: So he was wealthy.
They weren't a noble family.
>>NOORY: Did he have
a dark side to him?
>>DUQUETTE: No.
Well, they belonged to
the Exclusive Brethren
or the Plymouth Brethren,
sort of an early version
of modern evangelical
Christians,
Darbyites they were called.
And Darby was the
one that came up
with the impending end
of the world, the Rapture
of the church,
and things that we
think of as, sort of, modern
evangelical Christianity.
That all of us are doomed to
go to hell just for being born.
That's the price we
pay for being born
is that we're damned to hell.
And only if we have grace
that is God-given at birth,
whether we go to hell or heaven.
It was very strict, severely
strict, conservative Christian
movement.
>>NOORY: But you don't
think the father was
the basis of the foundation
that Aleister had?
>>DUQUETTE: He was
affected by his father.
He respected his father, and
he loved his father very much.
And his father was
a lay preacher,
who would get on his horse.
>>NOORY: And go off
into communities?
>>DUQUETTE: And go off
into the communities.
>>NOORY: So let's
take a look at Mom
and see what kind
of an influence
she had with Aleister.
There she is now.
Whoa, she obviously had a lot
to do with his devil worshipping
or whatever he did.
>>DUQUETTE: Doesn't that
look like it's right out
of Dickens' Oliver Twist.
>>NOORY: Yes, it sure does.
Tell me about Emily.
>>DUQUETTE: Well, Emily was
also a member of the Plymouth
Brethren, and she emotionally
misunderstood the doctrines
of the church enough to actually
traumatize the young Crowley.
So on one hand, he had the
father, who he respected,
who in a sense, was
a church leader.
And Crowley would like--
would grow up to
like to see himself
as a church leader, too,
or a spiritual leader.
>>NOORY: She looks
like she could
have been the reason he
was a little off kilter,
and I'm just saying
that by her picture.
>>DUQUETTE: If we want to
be amateur psychologists,
it's really easy for us to
actually see Crowley's talking
about himself as the Beast 666--
his mother, when he
was naughty as a child,
called him the Beast 666.
>>NOORY: See?
There you go
>>DUQUETTE: But he was trying
to use everything in his life
as a metaphor for his
own spiritual growth.
He saw the new advances
in human thought
as an evolutionary step
in human consciousness.
And he used the Bible
story or the story
of the Book of the
Revelation of John,
with the beast 666 and
the end of the age,
he saw that as the
perfect metaphor
and a perfect
description of what's
happening in human
consciousness around the turn
of the 20th century.
>>NOORY: He developed a
concept called magick.
What was that?
>>DUQUETTE: Magick's
an old concept that
goes back to prehistory, OK?
But Crowley's idea
of magick is a form
of willed, self-evolution,
purposefully setting about
to raise your consciousness.
And he used the Hebrew
Kabbalah as sort of a step
by step process of waking up.
When we look at
it that way, it is
what the great spiritual
teachers of the past
have been saying all along.
Crowley said, I'm going to
use the terms, the vocabulary,
the metaphors of classic magick.
I'm going to deal with these
concepts of consciousness
as spirits, as angels,
as demons, as gods.
>>NOORY: And he did.
>>DUQUETTE: And he
did, and this is
where so much of the
misunderstanding of Crowley
comes from.
It comes from anyone
with a limited definition
of what a spirit is, what an
angel is, what a demon is,
what a god is.
>>NOORY: But I can see how
people would misinterpret that.
>>DUQUETTE:
Absolutely, absolutely,
and it was sort of
Crowley's tragic flaw
that he underestimated the
number of people that could
see what he was getting at.
>>NOORY: Then there's
the Hermetic order
of the Golden Dawn.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>NARRATOR: Rumors of the
questionable occult activities
in Chancery Lane
were filtering back
to the other eminent
members of the Golden Dawn,
as well as whisperings
of Crowley's
many promiscuous
sexual relationships
with both men and women.
William Yates, for one,
highly disapproved of the man
and let it be known to Mavis.
In May 1899, Crowley
went to Paris
to meet the leader of the
Golden Dawn. for the first time.
Mavis wanted to be assured
of the obedience and harmony
amongst the members in London.
Crowley, on the
other hand, wanted
to be assured of his entrance
into the second order.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: OK, Lon, so what is
the Hermetic Order of the Golden
Dawn, first of all?
What is this?
>>DUQUETTE: Well, I don't
think anybody was tied up
like that in the Golden Dawn.
That was part of that clip was--
>>NOORY: Artistic sketch, huh?
>>DUQUETTE: Yeah.
Hermetic Order of
the Golden Dawn
was founded by high degree
Freemasons in the latter part
of the 19th century as a magical
society based on this step
by step self-initiation
into higher, higher
levels of consciousness.
It became very
attractive to people
in the arts and
intellectuals of the day that
were beginning to sort of
awaken for hidden riches
within the Western magical
and mystical traditions.
>>NOORY: Anything
evil about this group?
>>DUQUETTE: Gee,
in my opinion, no.
But it still depends on
your idea of what evil is.
Some people will think
eating meat is evil.
>>NOORY: Right, no,
you're right about that.
To me, evil is hurting people,
physically hurting people.
>>DUQUETTE: Right and the Golden
Dawn certainly wasn't that.
It was how do we
enlighten ourselves?
How do we become enlightened?
>>NOORY: But he
seemed to want to get
involved in all these
strange, bizarre activities.
>>DUQUETTE: Well,
he was attracted
to a colorful life, period.
>>NOORY: So he wasn't a
dull guy at all, was he?
>>DUQUETTE: He was
anything but dull.
>>NOORY: A character.
>>DUQUETTE: Yes,
and we don't really
have to resort to any made
up stories or any speculation
of wild activities.
We don't have to resort
to any made up stories.
Crowley's life was
full of real stories
that are very, very
interesting and exciting
in and of themselves.
He was attracted
to the Golden Dawn
and the Golden Dawn
had become, by 1900,
sort of entrenched and
comfortable with themselves
and sort of an elite attitude
formed within the degree
structure of the Golden Dawn.
And here comes Aleister
Crowley, who's obviously
a brilliant guy, grasping
all of their concepts,
mastering all of their
knowledge lectures
in record-breaking
time, grasping
the big picture of
what they're doing,
but still, he was a wild
and crazy mountain climbing
poet guy with all sorts of
friends, Oscar Wilde type
friends, you know?
>>NOORY: Of that era.
>>DUQUETTE: Of that era,
and they were saying,
this guy's just too
liberated, you know?
>>NOORY: He was too far.
Yeah, he was-- the
he's a loose cannon.
>>NOORY: What would you say,
Lon, in all your research,
was the strangest Aleister
Crowley story that's out there?
>>DUQUETTE: Wow!
>>NOORY: Bizarre, black
magic, whatever he did--
what would you say
was the strangest one?
>>DUQUETTE: Wow!
>>NOORY: That gave
him the notoriety.
>>DUQUETTE: I have such
a deep well of things
that I could choose from.
>>NOORY: I mean, did
he have black masses
where he prayed to the devil?
>>DUQUETTE: No, no.
>>NOORY: Did he do
anything like that?
Because we all think he did.
>>DUQUETTE: We all
think he did, yeah.
He would throw around the
term Satan and Lucifer--
>>NOORY: Willy-nilly.
>>DUQUETTE: Willy-nilly, OK?
Perhaps the wildest
thing that he did was he
marched across the
North African Sahara
with his friend and
colleague Victor Neuburg,
the famous poet, Victor Neuburg.
And every evening,
they would make camp
and they would perform
a magic ceremony that
was developed by Doctor John
Dee, Queen Elizabeth I's court
magician to open up
and receive visions
of what they called the 30
Enochian Aires or Aethyrs.
And if you can imagine
that the entire spectrum
of consciousness from you and
me, everyday consciousness
kind of people, all the way up
to the supreme consciousness of
godhead itself, OK?
And if you can
imagine that in 30
ascending sections or
frequencies of consciousness,
this Enochian magic operation
that used an angelic language--
it's very colorful, very--
it's like a small
psychedelic drug
that opens up the next door, the
next door, and the next door.
And when the doors are
opened, a flood of images
comes into the
magician and then--
which was Crowley in this case--
and he described what he was
seeing while Victor Neuburg.
>>NOORY: Was jotting it down.
>>DUQUETTE: Was jotting it down.
And they did 30
Aethyrs on it and it
is the most breathtaking and
strangely beautiful document.
>>NOORY: Lon, in
talking about music,
the Led Zeppelin
guitarist, Jimmy Page,
was obsessed with
Aleister Crowley.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>NARRATOR: The
cloud of mystique
that shadowed the band grew
with the news of Jimmy Page's
interest in Aleister Crowley,
an early 20th century
Englishman aligned with
black magic and demonology.
Page's fascination with
Crowley led many to believe he
was into black magic himself.
LORI MATTIX: I think
he was absolutely
fascinated with the man and
the knowledge of the will.
I don't think--
I mean, you know,
he owned a lot of manuscripts
and he bought the Inverness
Castle that was also Crowley's.
And I think with it, he had
purchased a lot of manuscripts.
And at one point,
he had a bookstore
in English, an occult bookstore.
And he was really
more fascinated
by the knowledge of it.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: Fascinated by
the knowledge of it.
>>DUQUETTE: Yes,
you could say that.
I think Jimmy Page's
rise to superstardom
was because he's a
brilliant musician more--
>>NOORY: Not because he
dabbled with the occult.
>>DUQUETTE: Right, but
his interest in Crowley
was as a serious collector,
as a serious student,
but even if he practiced
all of Aleister Crowley's
different rituals and
disciplines, none of it
would be, in my
opinion, considered
black magic or evil aligned.
>>NOORY: Would you go to
dinner with Crowley today?
>>DUQUETTE: I'd go to
dinner with Crowley,
but I'm sure that he'd
make me pick up the check.
>>NOORY: Uh-huh, and what
would you ask him at dinner?
>>DUQUETTE: I think
I would ask him,
if he had it to do over again,
would he have given the future
more credit to understand what
he was about without having
to go through a great deal
of the Barnum and Bailey--
>>NOORY: Routine.
>>DUQUETTE: Routine.
I think I would ask him that.
>>NOORY: Was he grossly
misread as a person?
>>DUQUETTE: Yes.
>>NOORY: By people?
He made enemies among the yellow
journalism press of the day,
that stories of his
activities sold newspapers.
And at first, Crowley
thought that was good,
any publicity is good publicity.
And he had learned--
>>NOORY: He made some
mistakes, though.
>>DUQUETTE: Oh, yes.
Oh, yes.
>>NOORY: Fundamental mistakes.
>>DUQUETTE: He was very human.
He was a very human prophet.
>>NOORY: There's a book
called "The Book of the Law"
that Aleister Crowley
was pretty interested in.
Let's take a look at this.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>NARRATOR: He wrote
solidly for one hour.
The same procedure was
followed the next day and again
on the third, until finally,
the message from Aiwass
was complete.
What he had written
down would later
become one of Crowley's
most infamous words known
as "The Book of the
Law," the doctrine which
the new order would
follow and Crowley himself
would be the chief
of that new order.
The Beast 666 and his
scarlet woman, Rose.
"Do what thou wilt shall
be the whole of the law,"
was probably the most
famous line from this book,
but there are also within
the work prophecies
and revelations, which
would leave even the most
skeptical minds wondering.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: So Lon, what was
this "Book of the Law?"
>>DUQUETTE: It was
a book that Crowley
received rather than wrote.
>>NOORY: Somebody
gave it to him?
>>DUQUETTE: No, he received
it in a trance-like--
>>NOORY: Ah, OK,
like a channelling.
>>DUQUETTE: Right, and he
didn't know what it was about.
He would probably confess,
even at the end of his life,
that he couldn't
completely understand
what it was all about.
>>NOORY: Automatic
writing, almost.
>>DUQUETTE: Yeah, right.
But what it became for him
was the primary revelation
of the age.
It's in three chapters.
>>NOORY: Small book.
>>DUQUETTE: It's
a very small book.
The chapters give voice to
three primary Egyptian gods--
the goddess Nuit, the goddess of
the night sky or the completely
expanded universe,
in other words,
the god that's
everything outward, OK?
And then Hadit, which is
the second chapter, which
would be the
inscrutable point that's
in the center of this big thing.
So it's like lovers
on a cosmic scale, OK?
But if the circumference
is infinite,
then the point in the middle is
also infinitely everywhere, OK?
And then the third chapter
is the Egyptian god Horus
that Crowley eventually
saw his chapter
as being indicative of the god
or the forces of consciousness
that are currently
in play today.
>>NOORY: Why the Egyptian
influence in his life?
>>DUQUETTE: Well, it may have
come because they were in Cairo
when it was written, OK?
And they had just spent--
he and his wife, his new
bride, had just a spent a night
in the King's Chamber.
Staying all night in
the King's Chamber,
they came back to the hotel.
She sort of fell into a
trance and said, the gods--
it was her trance.
>>NOORY: They spoke to here.
>>DUQUETTE: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Oh, so he's writing
from what she was saying?
>>DUQUETTE: Well, she
eventually told him
that this book wanted
to come through him.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>DUQUETTE: OK, and then he
followed her instructions
on how to set up the hotel
room and how to-- how to--
what time to sit
down and just write
what he heard through his ear.
>>NOORY: What did
he do with the book?
>>DUQUETTE: He ran away
from it for a few years
because it scared him.
That third chapter,
which describes
the violent, bloody beginning
of a new age, and it scared him.
Even he thought it
sounded too violent.
>>NOORY: Outlandish.
>>DUQUETTE: Outlandish, OK?
But it's the Egyptian god Horus,
who is a wild and crazy guy.
You know, he's a wild
and violent character.
But when Crowley
finally understood,
especially as the century
went into World War
I, the bloodbath of World War
II, the--
>>NOORY: Was this prophecy?
>>DUQUETTE: He saw
this third chapter,
the wild chapter that--
>>NOORY: Like Revelation almost.
>>DUQUETTE: Like
it's a Revelation.
It's not how we're
supposed to aspire
to a moral or ethical life, OK?
It's describing the nature,
the violent nature of the world
at the beginning of a new age.
>>NOORY: He had followers
like Raoul Loveday
and Raoul's wife, Betty May.
>>DUQUETTE: Right.
>>NOORY: He had great followers.
>>DUQUETTE: I don't know
how great they were,
but they came to
Sicily to see him.
>>NOORY: Well, let's see
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>NARRATOR: It did attract one
new disciple in particular,
Raoul Loveday, a 23-year-old
man who arrived at the Abbey
on the 26th of November 1922
with his young wife, Betty May.
Raoul wanted to study
under the great master.
Betty was skeptical
and unsure of living
in such a bizarre household.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: OK, so that's a
short clip on just a follower.
So he did have some people,
as we would say today, fans.
>>DUQUETTE: He had fans.
And poor Raoul and his wife,
who was an artist's model, Betty
May, who didn't really want
to come with Raoul to Sicily
to be with Crowley at
the Abbey of Thelema--
Raoul went hiking,
and he ignored
everybody's instructions
not to drink the water,
and he developed dysentery.
>>NOORY: Oh, geez, and in
those days, that's bad.
>>DUQUETTE: That's bad.
And Raoul died.
>>NOORY: From this?
>>DUQUETTE: From the
dysentery, right.
When newspapers in England
that had already vilified
Crowley in other matters,
when they got word
that a person died at
Crowley's compounds,
they got a hold of it.
And when Betty May came back
to England, they met with her.
She was a heroin addict.
When she came back to London,
they met with her at the Plough
Pub-- my favorite pub
on Museum Street--
and said, will you sign your
name to this story, you know?
>>NOORY: Authenticate
it, basically.
>>DUQUETTE: Yeah, and so they
tried to twist it in such a way
to make it sound like
the evil meditations
that they were doing killed
him, but any real reporter today
would not give that
story a second look.
And it was just part of
the ongoing vilification
of Crowley.
I'd like to point out
that Crowley was never
arrested in his life.
>>NOORY: Or charged.
>>DUQUETTE: Or
charged with anything.
Bankruptcy is probably
the biggest and libel, OK?
He was not arrested for
being a pornographer,
but some of his books were
confiscated at various borders
from countries like Italy.
Mussolini's Italy, that had
read the reports of Crowley.
And Mussolini eventually kicked
Crowley out of Sicily in 1923.
>>NOORY: Lon, you and I
both have a dear friend
named Art Rosengarten, who
is an expert in tarot cards.
Tarot cards also played a
role with Aleister Crowley.
Here we go.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>NARRATOR: Playing cards
that can reveal the future?
Some say they are a window
into another space and time.
It's been claimed
they are the remnants
of ancient esoteric wisdom, a
long lost book of secrets whose
symbols both hide and
reveal important knowledge.
The 78 intriguing and
perplexing tarot cards
have been feared by some
as the devil's playthings
perhaps for very good reason.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: Crowley dabbled
with these, did he not?
>>DUQUETTE: Tarot cards, as
Crowley learned in the Golden
Dawn, are based on,
structured upon,
reveal the esoteric nature
of the Hebrew Kabbalah.
They're like
Kabbalah flashcards.
But even more than that, they
are images in a classic union,
archetypal way trigger different
aspects of consciousness.
And they can be used
in a meditative way
to systematically access
these higher and higher levels
of conscious.
>>NOORY: He was way ahead
of the game, wasn't he.
>>DUQUETTE: He was way
ahead of the curve on it.
When England first started
to get into World War II,
Lady Frieda Harris, the
wife of Percy Harris,
a member of Parliament, became
one of Crowley's students,
and she talked him into
writing a book about tarot.
Because when you
write about tarot,
you write about Kabbalah,
when you write about Kabbalah,
you're writing about magic,
and when you write about magic,
you're writing about
all spiritual things.
She saw Crowley at the
end of his life saying,
this could be your
big magnum opus here.
Write a book about tarot and
I will paint you 78 watercolor
paintings at your direction.
And after going back
and forth for a while,
Crowley agreed to do that.
One of his greatest
works he wrote
in the last years of his life
is called "The Book of Thoth,"
and the Thoth tarot deck that
Lady Frieda Harris painted--
>>NOORY: That became the
premier deck, didn't it?
>>DUQUETTE: That's the premier
deck, second only to the Rider,
the Waite deck, which
we're all familiar with.
>>NOORY: But you
know, in those cards,
though Lon, you
have the Death card
and you have things like that.
That's kind of scary.
>>DUQUETTE: Well, so is
walking across the street.
>>NOORY: So he
dabbled in reality.
>>DUQUETTE: Yes, well, so does
all serious spiritual art forms
or spiritual practices do.
>>NOORY: Well, as you look at--
>>DUQUETTE: I mean, there's
evil looking gargoyles
on all of the cathedrals of
Europe dedicated to Our Lady.
>>NOORY: Yeah, makes
you wonder about that.
But if he lived
today and practiced
what he practiced then, he'd
be considered kind of dull,
wouldn't he?
>>DUQUETTE: Yeah.
>>NOORY: He really would.
>>NOORY: As we wrap this, we
got a little better perspective
into who this individual was.
Do you think he has gotten a bum
rap for being considered evil?
>>DUQUETTE: Yes, the simple
straight answer is yes.
It's truly a bum
rap when there's
so much real evil in the world.
To look at this guy,
who's only true motive
was to raise the
consciousness of the planet.
He did it sometimes awkwardly,
sometimes failed completely,
but his motive was
the same motive
of every holy man
that has ever tried
to raise the consciousness
of the planet.
>>NOORY: Thank you, Lon,
for being on the program.
>>DUQUETTE: Thank you, George.
>>NOORY: OK, so the next time
you hear the name Aleister
Crowley, don't panic.
If you listen to
Lon Milo Duquette,
you'll realize that he
was just another guy
with different concepts and
different approaches to life.
I'm George Noory, and
this is "Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]